# Horses for Courses
The meaning of the titular phrase comes from Horse races: horses will perform best on a track that suits them. To a person writing software (or just coding in general) the idea is to pick the tools that fit the job.

## Example 1
Let's assume you're tasked with redesigning a site's styles. There are these monolithic Stylesheets and maybe even some **gasp** inline styles your forebearers have gifted you. So what do you do? The first step is to get it out of your head that you need to write pure CSS. Never Write Pure CSS. You should use a preprocessor (or transpiler) that takes your styles and handles all of the dirty work. Which should you use? The race seems to be between LESS and SASS; SASS is definately winning. [Twitter Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) was written in LESS but ported to SASS due to demand. 

Another awesome tool is [Foundation](http://foundation.zurb.com/); like Bootstrap it is meant to give you a nice head start on making that site beautiful but Foundation is far more flexible. So if you are just trying to get something quick and dirty together go with something like Bootstrap to get to that Best Effort Design whereas Foundation is just like the name implies: a fast, flexible foundation for making a lot of awesome.

Back to our example scenario. So we have a monster CSS stylesheet and a good idea that we want to make this more maintainable. The first step is to break it up. Take a look at the Bootstrap [source code](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap) to get an idea of what that means. Break things up based on what they do, and use a tool like [grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) to compile the files and put them all together. This way, when you want to lighten up a color or make the breakpoints for your responsive designs (or anything else for that matter) you simply go to the file where that definition lives, change a variable or two and let grunt take care of the dirty work. Now you have compiled, minified stylesheets that can be maintained easily: phew.

## Example 2
Writing JavaScript sucks. It really sucks. Why? Semi-colons, brackets, parenthesis, and a host of other small annoyances that are relics of the language's ancestors (C, C++, not much Java ironically). So you're job is to make them nice and maintainable. How? [CoffeeScript](http://coffeescript.org/). It makes JavaScript far less painful and it can also minify your code so your data going down the wire will get there faster. CoffeeScript can (and should) be used for **ALL** your JS pursuits from vanilla JavaScript to jQuery, Angular, Ember or anything else. You can use Grunt for this stuff too.

## Example 3
I just got a new idea and now I want to get my product to market as fast as possible. There's a lot of overhead to use the tools in the above examples: you have to learn how to use them and set them up and make sure they are doing what you want. So if speed is the need, KISS. Keep It Simple, Stupid. What's a super easy way of getting off the ground quickly? Not writing a bunch of Boilerplate code. When you start off in web development (both front-end and back-end) writing HTML, CSS and JavaScript by hand are a necessity because you need to know what you are doing. But when it's crunch time and you have competitors to worry about, time is of the essence and writing DOCTYPE declarations and browser directives is a waste of your time. While you should know what that stuff is, there is a great tool available to take care of the initial boring code. [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/) is that tool. You need NPM (Node Package Manager) installed so head over to [NodeJS](http://nodejs.org/) and install it now because Node is made out of awesome and is used all over the place. Yeoman is super simple but quite opinionated. Opinionated in the Software world means unabashedly doing things in a specific way, damn the other ways of doing it. That's good many times but again, horses for courses people.

## Conclusions
I hope you've found these examples useful and feel free to contribute, especially if any links are broken.